Impress friends and family with your Zacapa rum knowledge
Ad goes here

How to start
So, usually when you get to the end of a dinner party you serve a nice whiskey. Perhaps neat, perhaps on the rocks, perhaps single malt. You and your friends have done this for years. No big surprises, everybody knows what they get and usually end up satisfied.

But hey! Why not spice things up a bit with some new experiences? I am thinking about Zacapa 23 year old rum. This, my friends, is the little known really good stuff! A favorite among women and men alike. Always at the top of the "favorite rums" lists.

If you have never experienced aged rum before you might be thinking "oh, rum, it's that stuff they use it drinks". You are right and wrong. Some well known drinks do contain rum, but rarely anything you would want to drink neat. In most places they serve certain brands neat that should not even be used for drinks...

 

 


How to drink
Time to taste it. Pour about 4-6 cl on a single cube of ice. Drink it as intended - a cooler in a hot climate. Then look at it. Hold it to the light and go back in time, about 23 years. For 23 years this liquor has been sleeping, waiting for you. Fascinating!

No rum tasting would be complete without a few words to help you describe your new sensation. Smell it, how it fills you up - smooth, sweet, inviting. Then take a sip. The first thing you will notice is the viscosity of the liquid. It almost has the feel of thick syrup in your mouth. Then you realize - no taste of alcohol! Quite amazing considering the alcoholic strength. You will taste fudge, honey, bananas, herbs, almonds. All of them nice and sweet and candy-like. 

 

The facts
But cast away your doubts and bad memories of rum - this is the choice of gods. And in the case of Zacapa it is the choice of the volcano gods! It is stored and aged in a cave at high altitude, 2300 metres (7500 feet), of an active volcano in the depths of the Guatemalan rainforest.

It is made from the concentrated sugar cane juice called "virgin sugar cane honey". When you make rum from the raw sugar cane juice you you get a type of rum called "rhum agricole" with a very distinct taste compared to traditional rum made from the left overs from sugar processing.

The Zacapa is then aged and blended using the solera method traditionally used for sherries, all overseen by a female master blender, Lorena Vazquez. 

Every Zacapa bottle  feature a band around the middle, a handwoven matting made by the local housewives. The technique to create the matting from palm leaves dates back to the Mayan period. When you have emptied the bottle you can actually see, on the inside of the matting, the signature of the woman who made that exact band for your bottle! 

Summary
Here follows a few suggested things to learn by heart to impress your friends: 

aged for 23 years
Guatemala
cave
volcano
raw sugar cane juice
handmade bottle band
Good luck with your next dinner party!

The town of Zacapa in Guatemala



Map data ©2014 Google, INEGI
Terms of Use

Map
Satellite
Get Directions 
Zacapa, Guatemala

